Add Sailfish OS Tips & Tricks (#77)
sailfishos/docs.sailfishos.org: Reference/Sailfish_OS_Tips_and_Tricks/README.md

---
title: Sailfish OS Tips & Tricks
permalink: Reference/Sailfish_OS_Tips_and_Tricks/
layout: default
nav_order: 1000
---

## Experimental configuration keys

This section contains experimental configuration keys which may disappear as Sailfish OS evolves.

### Quick app switching

Similar to pressing Alt + Tab ↹ once on desktop to switch back to the previous app window. One major difference between quick app switching gesture and Alt + Tab ↹ is that you can only jump to the previous app.

#### Enable quick app switching

> Ssh to device and as a user write following configuration value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ssh to your device and as a user write the following configuration value:
```

```nosh
dconf write /desktop/sailfish/experimental/quickAppToggleGesture true
```

> Once enabled you can switch from the foregound app to the previous app by doing a three centimetres long peek gesture from the foreground app slowly enough (more than 500ms). After threshold values, distance and duration, are exceeded the previous app cover highlights on the switcher and releasing your finger activates the previous app. Gesture can be cancelled by peeking back towards the edge of the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once enabled you can switch from the foregound app to the previous app by doing a three centimetres long peek gesture from the foreground app slowly enough (more than 500ms). After threshold values, distance and duration, are exceeded the previous app cover highlights on the switcher and releasing your finger activates the previous app. The gesture can be cancelled by peeking back towards the edge of the device.
```

#### Disable quick app switching

> Ssh to device and as a user write following configuration value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ssh to your device and as a user write the following configuration value:
```

```nosh
dconf write /desktop/sailfish/experimental/quickAppToggleGesture false
```

### Easing edge swipe

> Ease of performing edge swipe may differ from user to user due to various reasons. For example shape & size of your finger matters, protective cover might affect, and screen protector class may hinder performing the edge swipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ease of performing edge swipes may differ from user to user due to various reasons. For example shape & size of your finger matters, protective cover might affect it, and use of a screen protector may hinder performing the edge swipe.
```

> Edge swipe boundary width is adjusted on device adaptation basis but due to above reasons it might not be the best fit for you. Hence, it can be adjusted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The edge swipe boundary width is adjusted on a device adaptation basis but due to the above reasons it might not be the best fit for you. Hence, it can be adjusted.
```

> Read current peek filter boundary width (in pixels) as follows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the current peek filter boundary width (in pixels) as follows
```

```nosh
dconf read /desktop/lipstick-jolla-home/peekfilter/boundaryWidth
```

> For example for your Sony Xperia 10 II following value may work better if you have bigger hands (fingers) or you are have a screen protector class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example for your Sony Xperia 10 II the following value may work better if you have bigger hands (fingers) or if you have a screen protector.
```
